Alright, let's talk about sending emails.
This is obviously gonna be done all on the server side.
And in order to send email, first you need
something that will actually do the sending of your email.
You need an SMTP account, that you can hook in
to actually send the email.
Now traditionally this is a little hard
because when you sign up for an email
sending service you need to verify
your domain name and,, do a bunch of stuff before
you can actually get sending email.
And actually, in the reality you, when you're just devving
you don't want to actually be sending emails.
So, I use the service called mailtrap and what it is
is a SMTP server that will sort of like not actually
send the emails to anybody, but it'll trap them and
it'll put them in this backend and you can see
what's got sent, who's sending it, what it looks like,
all kinds of awesome information.
When you're ready to push your production live,
all you have to do is sign up for something like,
I personally use something like Postmark.
It's not a sponsor or anything like that
I just really, like the service.
There's things like
send grid and there's a couple other ones out there,
and you just have to swap out your SMPT credentials
with the new ones.
So, what we wanna do is go ahead and
sign up for a Mailtrap account.
You likely maybe have taken
my node course.
And if you have used your node course
you can use the same credentials that we use in that one.
Then you wanna go to your account
and you'll get an inbox that you'll have here so go ahead
and click through to the demo inbox and you're going to see
your SMTP credentials.
Because these will change depending
on if you're in development or production, we're going to
stick this information, in our variables, that ENV file
that is in our backend along with all the other secret stuff
that should never be shared with anyone.
So, what we'll do here is we'll say, MAIL_HOST is
equal to, and that is, if we take a look here, it's
SMTP.mailtrap.io.
And we'll have MAIL_PORT is equal to,
and here is 25465 or 2525.
I always have used 2525.
We'll have a MAIL_USER, is equal to,
and we'll go ahead and take the username here.
And then you have a MAIL_PASSWORD and I'll call that PASS.
I'll paste this one in.
Good! Now we need to create a
new file that's called Mail.js.
So we'll go into our
source folder here.
And we'll create a new file.
Call it Mail.js. and inside of that we want to first,
import a package called node mailer and, node mailer,
I think they even have setup for it.
Here we go.
Node mailer's like the best way to actually send email
with node.js and we're actually going to configure
what's called a transport.
Now they do give you the,
the code right here.
But let's code it by hand ourselves.
So I'll say const nodemailer
is equal to require ("nodemailer").
And we'll make a transport.
So nodemailer.createTransport.
And transport is essentially, like a one way of
sending email.
Like you could have multiple transports.
You can even hook it up to your Gmail account if you want.
In this case we're hooking it up to an SMTP server.
And, in that config object we have the host and
normally you would just hard code it like this.
But, we are going to use the process.env.MAIL_HOST.
And that is because these variables are all gonna be
available to us on the process.env.MAIL_HOST.
We'll do the same with the port.
And, oh sorry this is lowercase and then we need to
pass the auth, which is an object that has a user,
that is process.env.MAIL_USER.
And then the pass.
And know that it's pass, and not password.
That could be a little gotcha.
That get's ya.
Now let's go ahead and export that.
So exports.transport is equal to transport
and then we also need another function that's actually gonna
template out our email.
Now there's all kinds of different ways
to template emails.
You can actually even do templating, in react.
There's this thing called MJML,
and it's pretty nifty because you can code your emails
in these things, these special tags.
And they allow you
to snap together emails pretty quickly and
it's pretty nifty.
So, in my node course we used pugged
to template, and something called juice to
inline the CSS.
In this case we're going to be sending
very very bare bones email. We're not going to get into
any templating just 'cause there's so many different
possible ways.
And it's a little bit outside this tutorial.
But, if this was the case where you wanted to integrate
some sort of templating, this is where you would do it.
So, the function that we are gonna make to template,
quote unquote, is gonna be called the make a nice email.
So. const makeANiceEmail
is equal to, and that is going to be a function
that takes in some text, and returns,
and we're gonna use back text here, and inside of that
you'll want a div that has a class name of email.
So I'm gonna say .email and that inside of it will have
just some bare bones styling inside of it so
border: 1px solid black,
padding: 20px,
font-family: sans-serif,
line-height" is 2.
And font-size is 20px.
Then, inside of this div, we just want an h2 tag that says,
"Hello there!"
And then we'll give ourselves a
paragraph tag that simply just puts in the text,
it interpellates the text with ESX backticks.
And then I'll have another paragraph tag
that gives us a kiss, says "Wes Bos."
So, that is our very simple templating,
this is obviously where you would replace it with
anything else that you would like to template.
And in line any CSS that you have, and then I'm going
to export.makeANiceEmail
is equal to makeANiceEmail;
And of course you could also, oops that's exports,
you could also just do this right here, say
exports.makeANiceEmail and you could do it all in
one go, I prefer to just define it as a variable
and then export it at the bottom, just for my own
my own preferences.
So that is our email
is up and running, and what we want to do now is
open up the mutation resolver for the resetting,
or the request reset of the password, 'cause the actual
reset of the password doesn't need to send an email.
But our request reset does need to send a password.
So, we want to actually import both of these things,
the transport and the makeANiceEmail from this mail.js.
So, let's go up to the top and we'll say
const
transport,
and makeANiceEmail
= require
and I think it's, just called Mail.
And go up a level, and we're just going to mail,
and we don't need the .js on the end.
Lookin' good.
Then we'll go back down to our request reset here,
and we'll go down to where we are returning
the message Thanks!, we can move that down to the bottom
and then, make sure, for sure, make sure that you put
that at the bottom, 'cause if you return and then try
to write all the email code below a return,
it will never run and you'll be really frustrated.
So, we'll move that to the bottom of the function
and, let's just put a little comment there for
Return the message.
Now, three, email them that
reset token, so were gonna say, const mailRes = await
and then we're going to take the transport
that we imported, and we're going to call it a
sendMail function, that sendMail method takes
a couple things, so from:, and in this case I'm going to
say it's from,
wes@wesbos.com, I'm going to
'to: user.email', because we already have this user
up here, remember we queried the database for the user.
Well, down here we can send it through their specific email.
The subject line, is going to be equal to
Your Password Reset Token, and then the HTML
of the email is going to be makeANiceEmail,
and we are simply going to say,
"Your Password Reset Token is Here!"
And \n\n and then we're going to put a link inside of there,
a href=, and now what does the URL go to?
We can't really hard code local hosts here,
but if, remember our variables, that ENV, we have access to
this frontend Url, that's why we've put it in there,
so that we can reference it.
And of course, when you
push it to production, that's gonna be a different URL.
It's a beauty of having environmental variables
that change depending on where you have it deployed.
So, we can simply take that URL process.env.FRONTEND_URL
it's not highlighting properly and that's because
this should not be single quotes, but backticks.
There we go, that's lookin' good.
Gonna put these on their own line,
just for my own sanity's sake.
a href = process.env.FRONTEND_URL and it will just say
Click Here to Reset.
Oh, and obviously we need
to tag the /reset?resetToken needs to come along
for the ride, which is going to be equal to the
variable reset token.
Again, that reset token,
where does that come from?
Well, up here, we generated the reset token
and then saved it to the user
so we can put it into the email.
That looks pretty good.
We have the mail response, we are awaiting it to send.
And then, finally we are turning the message to send.
If this goofs up, we're assuming this works here,
but what you could do is you could check for the
mail response or you could wrap this entire thing
in a try-catch, and send an error back.
Or throw an error and that would tell the user,
"Sorry, something wrong happened,"
But in this case,
I'm going to keep it simple and make sure that,
assume that it worked fine.
So, if that worked properly,
we're going to sign out,
got a little bit of an error here,
"Cannot read property 'me' of undefined".
I get this fairly often and usually what that means
is that my backend is not actually running.
It's kind of a weird issue,
that gave me some grief sometimes.
But I bet if I go to my backend here,
reference error reuqire is not defined.
Oh! I see what I did.
So let's open up the mutation,
go here, ah, it's, I spelt require wrong.
And probably get rid of, there we go.
There we go.
I'm going to sign out, now I'm going to sign in
and oh, I forgot my password.
Request a reset.
Boom. Success.
Check your email for a link,
so go back to our inbox here.
Ho ho!
Look what we got here.
"Your password reset token,"
this is our beautifully templated email.
"Your password reset token is here!"
And if I hover over that,
it looks like it's pointing to local hosts,
I can click through to that, and I change my password
to Dogs, Dogs, reset my password and I'm signed in.
Woo! Nice little flow there.
surprisingly easy to send email out,
just a what we got here,
about 30 lines of code and then a couple
more added to our mutation.
So, in a really good shape there.
Let's move on to the next video.